With the extended Kalman Filter localization algorithm,
you can estimate the pose of almost any robot with accurate onboard sensors.
So, you might be wondering why it's necessary to master another localization algorithm.
Well, MCL presents many advantages over EKF.
First, MCL is easy to program compared to EKF.
You will be able to evaluate this by yourself while coding
MCL algorithm with C++ in the upcoming lesson.
Second, MCL represents non-Gaussian distributions
and can approximate any other practical important distribution.
This means that MCL is unrestricted by
a linear Gaussian states-based assumption as is the case for EKF.
This allows MCL to model a much greater variety of
environments especially since you can't
always model the real world with Gaussian distributions.
Third, in MCL, you can control the computational memory and resolution of
your solution by changing the number of
particles distributed uniformly and randomly throughout the map.
This might not make sense to you yet,
but you'll be able to understand it as we go through building the MCL and C++.
For a full comparison of MCL and EKF,
check out the table provided.